The signing of a declaration in Beijing by representatives of Palestinian factions has been broadly hailed as an "exceptional success" in China's diplomatic efforts to create conditions for ending the protracted conflict in the Gaza Strip and promoting regional peace.

The declaration on ending division and strengthening unity was signed on Tuesday after three days of reconciliation talks among 14 Palestinian factions, including rivals Hamas and Fatah.

United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres "very much welcomes" the signing of the declaration by Palestinian factions, UN spokesman Stephane Dujarric said in New York on Tuesday.

"The secretary-general encourages all factions to overcome their differences through dialogue and urges them to follow up on the commitments that were made in Beijing and the declaration they signed on to," Dujarric said.

Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas "voiced profound appreciation of China's historical positions in support of the rights of the Palestinian people", according to Palestine's WAFA News Agency.

Sven Koopmans, the European Union's special representative for the Middle East peace process, said that China has "an important role in reconciliation based on the twostate solution and a halt to violence".

Malaysian Prime Minister Anwar Ibrahim wrote on social media platform X that the declaration signed in Beijing "represents a promising step toward achieving Palestinian solidarity, so crucial for realizing the rights of the Palestinian people".

He commended "the government of the People's Republic of China for facilitating talks "among Hamas, Fatah and 12 other Palestinian factions.

Anwar said that international backing is essential for creating conditions for lasting peace in Gaza, and urged nations that have not yet voiced their support to recognize an independent State of Palestine and encourage such unity efforts.

"Malaysia stands ready to promote actively all measures toward that end," he added.

Pakistani Prime Minister Muhammad Shahbaz Sharif wrote on X that he applauded China "for securing this important diplomatic success".

The world "must stand in solidarity with the Palestinian people and urge Israel to end its brazen violence", which has destroyed Gaza and killed around 40,000 innocent Palestinians in the past 10 months, Sharif said.

"Pakistan reaffirms its unwavering support for the Palestinian cause and reiterates its call for a two-state solution that creates an independent State of Palestine with pre-1967 borders," he added.

The Foreign Ministry of Turkiye welcomed in a statement the gathering of Palestinian factions in Beijing and "their acceptance of a declaration aimed at achieving national unity", according to Turkiye's Anadolu Agency.

While welcoming the declaration, the Sultanate of Oman said this "highly needed goal" should be achieved by adhering to "relevant resolutions of international legitimacy", according to the Oman News Agency.

Dina Yulianti Sulaeman, director of the Indonesia Center for Middle East Studies, told China Daily that the success of 14 Palestinian factions, including Hamas and Fatah, in reaching an agreement "is due to China's impartial efforts", which "provide space for the Palestinian people to formulate what is best for them".

While fostering new quality productive forces, China's different regions should try to leverage their own endowments and comparative advantages rather than rushing to invent new technologies in frontier areas, without factoring in their local conditions, a senior economist told China Daily in an exclusive interview.

Justin Yifu Lin, dean of Peking University's Institute of New Structural Economics, said applying new technologies in traditional sectors should be treated as part of the drive to harness new quality productive forces.

Regions with development gaps should measure their progress compared to their own past rather than shifting their focus to pursuit of success in frontier activities, which could result in haphazard or uneven development.

There are two different types of new quality productive forces: one that invents new technologies and one that applies them, said Lin.

"Regions with gaps in development should use new technologies to improve productivity. It's essential to follow the principle of seeking truth from facts and develop according to competitive advantages."

His comments came after the third plenary session of the 20th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China adopted a resolution on further deepening reform comprehensively to advance Chinese modernization.

The resolution, unveiled on Sunday, detailed a set of meticulously crafted reform plans, and called for improving existing institutions and mechanisms to foster new quality productive forces in line with local conditions.

Lin said different regions have different competitive advantages, and they need to be realistic about their respective development stage, to better foster new quality productive forces.

"As long as you use new technologies to improve your productivity, it's also a new type of productive force for you. You need to compare yourself with your past performance instead of comparing yourself with (others') frontier activities."

Lin said that the plenum demonstrated important commitment of the Chinese leadership to "using reform and opening-up as a way to overcome the challenges and capture opportunities", thereby promoting high-quality development to boost Chinese modernization.

China must better leverage the role of the market and tap the opportunity of technological innovation to enhance productivity, especially as it stands at the same starting line with other countries for the Fourth Industrial Revolution, an opportunity China "cannot afford to miss", he said.

He highlighted that China has several advantages to tap the potential of the Fourth Industrial Revolution and foster new quality productive forces, which include a large pool of talent, huge domestic market, the most comprehensive manufacturing ecosystem and a positive role played by the government.

On promoting the deep integration between the real economy and the digital economy, he said China's strengths include having one of the best digital infrastructure in the world and a large economy generating vast amounts of data in production and consumption.

However, he stressed the need to improve the definition of the property rights of data to further utilize data as a new production factor.

Lin further said China needs to reform its financial system to better mobilize financial resources for supporting innovations, while implementing fiscal reforms to better balance spending responsibilities between local and central governments. Encouraging the development of venture capital and patient capital will be important improvements, he said.

Li Dongsheng, founder and chairman of Chinese consumer electronics maker TCL Technology Group Corp, said, "China's new growth drivers come from industrial transformation and upgrading, and technological innovation."

The country can accelerate the formation of sound systems and mechanisms for fostering new quality productive forces by giving play to the leading role of enterprises in sci-tech innovation and stimulating their innovation vitality, he said.